# var, const and let

Traditionally, the way variable declarations work has been one tricky part of programming in JavaScript. In most C-based languages, variables (or bindings) are created at the spot where the declaration occurs. In JavaScript, however, this is not the case. Where your variables are actually created depends on how you declare them, and ECMAScript 6 offers options to make controlling scope easier. 

### Var Declarations and Hoisting

Variable declarations using `var` are treated as if they are at the top of the function (or global scope, if declared outside of a function) regardless of where the actual declaration occurs; this is called hoisting. 

```js

function getValue(condition) {
  if (condition) {
    var value = "blue";
    // other code
    return value;
  } else {
    // value exists here with a value of undefined
    return null;
    }
  // value exists here with a value of undefined
}

```

### Let Declarations

The `let` declaration syntax is the same as the syntax for `var`. You can basically replace `var` with let to declare a variable, but limit the variable’s scope to only the current code block (there are a few other subtle differences discussed a bit later, as well). Since `let` declarations are not hoisted to the top of the enclosing block, you may want to always place `let` declarations first in the block, so that they are available to the entire block.

```js
function getValue(condition) {
  if (condition) {
    let value = "blue";
    // other code
    return value;
  } else {
    // value doesn't exist here
    return null;
  }
  // value doesn't exist here
}

```

### Constant Declarations

You can also define variables in ECMAScript 6 with the `const` declaration syntax. Variables declared using `const` are considered constants, meaning their values cannot be changed once set. For this reason, every `const` variable must be initialized on declaration

```js

// Valid constant
const maxItems = 30;

// Syntax error: missing initialization
const name;

```

```js

const maxItems = 5;
maxItems = 6;      // throws error

```

```js

if (condition) {
  const maxItems = 5;
  // more code
}
// maxItems isn't accessible here

```